# SU(2) gauge theory with one and two adjoint fermions towards the continuum limit

## Data release for [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]

This package contains all data generated in preparing the publication
[SU(2) gauge theory with one and two adjoint fermions towards the continuum limit][paper].
It includes five classes of data:

1. Raw data,
   as generated from the measurement code running on HPC,
   in their native formats.
2. Metadata around the analysis of the ensembles, in YAML format.
3. Data obtained by analysing the above data and presented in [arXiv:2408.00171][paper],
   for specific ensembles,
   in sqlite3 format.
4. The above data in (3),
   and additional data obtained by further analysing them,
   in CSV format.
5. For convenience,
   the data in (1) above,
   repackaged in HDF5 format.

Each of these will be documented in more detail below.

Due to their size, raw gauge configurations are not included in this package.

## Data classes

### Raw data

Raw data are stored in the `raw_data.zip` file.
This file supplements [the previous release][previous-dr]
This file contains a directory tree with the following levels:

* The top level indicates the number of flavours and,
  where appropriate,
  the fermion representation.
  In this work, directories are `nf1_ADJ` and `nf2_ADJ`.
* The next level indicates the value of the coupling `beta`,
  prefixed with the letter `b`.
  This release includes data for four values of `beta` for `nf1_ADJ`:
  `b2.2`, `b2.25`, `b2.3`, and `b2.4`;
  and one value of `beta` for `nf2_ADJ`: `b2.35`.
* The next level indicates the dynamical fermion mass prefixed by the letter `m`.
  See Tables I&ndash;III of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper] for a full listing.
* The next level indicates the lattice volume,
  in the form `NTxNS`,
  where `NT` and `NS` are the number of sites in the temporal and spatial directions respectively.
  (The three spatial directions have equal size.)
  Again, see Tables I&ndash;III of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper] for a full listing.

This is sufficient to uniquely specify an ensemble.
Within each such directory are one or more files,
with filenames indicating their contents:

* `out_hmc`:
  the run history of
  the RHMC (`nf1_ADJ`) or HMC (`nf2_ADJ`) algorithm
  used to generate the gauge configurations,
  as generated by [HiRep][hirep]
  (`HMC/hmc`),
  or [Grid][grid]
  (specific tools as discussed in Footnote 1 of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]),
* `out_pl`:
  spatial and temporal Polyakov line calculations for each configuration,
  generated by [HiRep][hirep]
  (`StaticPotential/mk_polyakov_loops`),
* `out_corr`:
  mesonic and baryonic correlation functions,
  as generated by [HiRep][hirep]
  (`Spectrum/mk_mesons_with_z2semwall` and `Spectrum/measure_spectrum`),
* `out_wflow`:
  the history of the gradient flow computation,
  as generated by [HiRep][hirep]
  (`WilsonFlow/WF_measure`),
  or by [Grid][grid],
  (a specific tool as discussed in Footnote 1 of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]),
* `out_modenumber`:
  measurements of the Dirac mode number,
  as generated by [HiRep][hirep]
  (`ModeNumber/modenumber`)
* `modenumber.dat`:
  raw unformatted data for the Dirac mode number,
  as generated by the FlexLatSim code
  (not yet public),
* `out_corr_spin12`:
  correlation functions for various observables;
  for the purposes of this paper
  only used for computation of the mass of the spin-1/2 state,
  generated by the FlexLatSim code
  (not yet public),
* `out_{corr,vev}_{A1++,E++,T2++,torelon}`:
  correlation matrices and vacuum expectation values of gluonic states,
  generated by a Fortran tool adjacent to but not included with [HiRep][hirep].

#### `out_hmc`

The HMC output details all the parameters used to set up the runs,
and includes measurements of the plaquette after each trajectory.
Files are in one of two formats,
depending on the software used to generate it.
Both formats are text-based logs.

For ensembles generated using HiRep,
lines start with a label such as indicating the component reporting.
Examples would be `[MAIN]` (indicating reports from the main iteration loop),
`[GEOMETRY]` (indicating details of the arrangement of the lattice in memory),
and `[RHMC]` (indicating details specific to the RHMC algorithm).
This log format is standard for all output files generated using HiRep components.

For ensembles generated using Grid,
lines are not labeled by component,
but are labeled by the elapsed time since a given job began executing.

#### `out_pl`

Polyakov loops are reported in the common HiRep format.
In addition to spatial and temporal Polyakov lines (labaled by `[POLYAKOV]`),
this also reports the plaquettes in each orientation (labeled by `[PLAQ]`).

#### `out_corr`

These correlation functions are reported in the common HiRep format.
Results are on lines beginning `[MAIN][0]conf`.
This prefix is followed by:

* The index of the configuration in the current configuration list
  (_not_ the trajectory identifier),
* `mass=`,
  followed by the valence mass used in the computation,
  which in this work is equal to the dynamical mass,
* The word `TRIPLET`,
  to indicate the computation is of a connected correlation function
  (`SINGLET`s are not considered in this work),
* The channel,
  followed by `=`,
  where the channel indicates the combination of gamma matrices
  and is described below,
* A space-separated list of the values of the correlation function,
  in which the number of entries is equal
  to the number of lattice sites in the time direction.

The majority of channels can be parsed into a more conventional notation
by subscripting any digits and replacing each `g` with a gamma.
Two exceptions to this are `id`,
the identity,
and `g5_g0g5_re`,
which is used to compute the PCAC mass.

#### `out_wflow`

The gradient flow outut is reported either in the common HiRep format,
or in a Grid log.

In the Hirep case,
lines of interest are labeled by `[WILSONFLOW]`,
followed by:

* `(ncnfg,t,E,t2*E,Esym,t2*Esym,TC) =`,
  an indication of what the following numbers on the line represent,
* the index of the configuration in the current configuration list
  (_not_ the trajectory identifier),
* the gradient flow time `t`,
* the density `E` as measured by the plaquette operator,
* the combination `t * t * E`,
* the density `E` as measured by the symmetric clover operator (`Esym`),
* the combination `t * t * Esym`,
* the topological charge of the configuration.

In the Grid case,
lines of interest contain `[WilsonFlow]` after the standard line beginning
(i.e. in column 8, if delimiting by white space).
Lines containing `Energy density (plaq) :`
and `Energy density (cloverleaf) :`
report the flow time `t` and the energy density `E`
in the rightmost two columns,
for the plaquette and symmetric clover operator respectively
Lines containing `Top. charge           :`
report the topological charge of the configuration
at the same flow as the previous two lines.

In this work, the flow time step is constant, as the adaptive flow was not used.

#### `out_modenumber`

The Dirac mode number measurements are reported in the common HiRep format.
Lines of interest are prefixed by `[MODENUMBER][0]nu[`,
followed by

* the value below which we are counting eigenvalues (`Omega`),
* `] =`,
* the value of the mode number for this configuration.

As the mode number computation was not parallelised for this work,
separate instances of the executable were invoked for each configuration
and for each value of `Omega`;
this results in a lot of redundant text.

The Chebychev polynomial is also reported in lines beginning `[MODENUMBER][0]c[`.

#### `out_corr_spin12`

Lines containing data start with `(MM)`,
and are delimited by colons.
The second column contains the trajectory index,
and the subsequent columns before the last one or more fields identifying the specific measurement.
Only the lines labeled `gluinoglue` were used in the calculation of the spin-1/2 state.


### `ensembles.yaml`

The file `ensembles.yaml` contains metadata describing
all ensembles considered in this work.
This file supersedes the version included in [the previous data release][previous-dr].
Nodes of this file are labeled by the ensemble identifier as included in [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]
(DB1M1 &endash; DB7M9 for `nf1_ADJ`,
and Nf2DB2M1 &endash; Nf2DB2M7 for `nf2_ADJ`).

Data included are:

* The group family
  (`SU(N)` for this work)
* The rank of the group
  (`2` for this work)
* The representation
  (`ADJ` for this work)
* The number of dynamical flavours
  (`1` or `2` for this work)
* An "initial configuration"
  (ignored in this work)
* The inverse coupling `beta`
* The spatial and temporal dimensions `L` and `T`
* The dynamical mass `m`
* The initial and final trajectory considered
  (`first_cfg` and `last_cfg`)
* The count of configurations considered
  (`cfg_count`)
* Whether the gradient flow has been measured,
  and if so,
  which code was used to do so
  (`measure_gflow`)
* Whether the HMC log is available to measure the average plaquette from
  (`measure_plaq`)
* Whether the Polyakov loop has been measured
  (`measure_pl`)
* Whether the Dirac mode number has been measured
  (`measure_modenumber`),
  in which case
  * What `method` to use to fit it
  * What `format` the data are in
  * What limits to use for `Omega` on plots of these data
  * What limits to use on `Omega` and the window length on fits of these data
  * What other parameters to pass to the fitter to filter the data
* Whether gluonic correlation matrices have been measured
  (`measure_glueballs`),
  in which case:
  * If these data were previously analysed:
    * How many bins were used
      (`num_bins`)
    * How many blocking levels were used
      (`num_blocking_levels`)
  * If these data are analysed in the present work:
    * How many configurations are analysed
    * For each channel considered
      (`torelon`, `A1++`, `E++`, `T++`):
      * The `plateaux` used for each state in the GEVP:
        a list that may contain elements with a `start` and an `end`,
        or be `null`
        (if a given state was skipped).
        States count upwards from the ground state;
        states above the number of presented plateaux are not considered.
      * Optionally,
        for states in the $2^{++}$ channel,
        whether this state is to be considered
        when computing the weighted mean $2^{++}$ mass
* Whether mesonic correlation functions were measured
  (`measure_mesons`),
  in which case
  * For each channel
    (labeled by the channel identifiers corresponding to
    those described for HiRep above,
    and where `k` represents averaging over the numbers `1`, `2`, `3`)
    * The start and end of the plateau
      (`plateau_start` and `plateau_end`)
* Where the mesonic correlation function was measured,
  then the parameters for the fit of the PCAC mass `measure_pcac`,
  specifically
  * The start and end of the plateau
    (`plateau_start` and `plateau_end`)
* Whether the spin-1/2 state has been measured,
  in which case
  * The start and end of the plateau
    (`plateau_start` and `plateau_end`)

### `su2.sqlite`

This database contains all results presented for individual ensembles in [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]
(including Tables I&ndash;3,
the AIC data in Tables IV&ndash;V,
and the points in Figures 4, 6&ndash;12, 19&ndash;22)
and some results used in preparation of the work
but not considered worth including in the publication.
It comprises two tables:

* `simulation`, which stores details about the ensembles (largely mirroring the data from `ensembles.yaml`), comprising the fields:
  * `id`: A sequential unique identifier (primary key)
  * `label`: The ensemble label
    (DB1M1 &endash; DB7M9 for `nf1_ADJ`,
    and Nf2DB2M1 &endash; Nf2DB2M7 for `nf2_ADJ`)
  * `group_family`: The group family (`SUN` for this work)
  * `group_rank`: The rank of the group (`2` for this work)
  * `representation`: The representation (`ADJ` for this work)
  * `Nf`: The number of dynamical flavours (`1` or `2` for this work)
  * `beta`: The inverse coupling `beta`
  * `L`: The spatial and temporal dimensions `L` and `T`
  * `T`: The dynamical mass `m`
  * The initial and final trajectory considered (`first_cfg` and `last_cfg`)
  * The count of configurations considered (`cfg_count`)
  * The "`initial configuration`" (ignored in this work)
* `measurement`, which stores each individual measurement/fit result,
  comprising the fields:
  * `id`: A sequential unique identifier (primary key)
  * `simulation_id`:
    The identifier of the `simulation` from which the measurement was made
  * `updated`: The date the quantity was last updated
  * `observable`: The name of the observable
  * `valence_mass`: Where appropriate, the valence mass used in the computation
  * `free_parameter`: An arbitrary free parameter that a result may depend on;
  in this work this is only used for the reference scale in the gradient flow
  (0.2 in all results in [arXiv:2408.00171][paper])
  * `value`: the central value of the quantity measured
  * `uncertainty`: the uncertainty in the quantity measured

### CSV files

Two CSV files are included in this release.
Both files begin with comment lines starting with `#`,
including provenance information on the file
(the user who ran the analysis,
the machine it was run on,
the modification timestamp for the `ensembles.yaml` file used,
the version of the analysis code used,
and the timestamp at which the file was generated).
These should be ignored when reading in the file with your software of choice.

#### `ensemble_results.csv`

This file contains data computed from single individual ensembles.
Metadata columns are:

* `label`: The ensemble label
  (DB1M1 &endash; DB7M9 for `nf1_ADJ`,
  and Nf2DB2M1 &endash; Nf2DB2M7 for `nf2_ADJ`)
* `group_family`: The group family (`SUN` for this work)
* `group_rank`: The rank of the group (`2` for this work)
* `representation`: The representation (`ADJ` for this work)
* `Nf`: The number of dynamical flavours (`1` or `2` for this work)
* `beta`: The inverse coupling `beta`
* `L`: The number of lattice sites in the `x`, `y`, and `z` dimensions
* `T`: The number of lattice sites in the temporal dimension
* `m`: The dynamical fermion mass,
  also equal to the valence mass for observables including fermion operators
* `first_cfg`: The initial trajectory considered
  (e.g. where thermalisation was taken to end)
* `last_cfg`: The final trajectory considered
  (typically where generation was stopped)
* `cfg_count`: The count of configurations considered.
  Not equal to `last_cfg` $-$ `first_cfg` if multiple Monte Carlo streams were generated.

Most columns carrying (non-meta-) data have the form `{state}_{observable}_{statistic}`,
where `state` is one of

* `A1++`: the $A_1^{++}$ glueball
* `E++`: the $E^{++}$ glueball
* `T2++`: the $T_2^{++}$ glueball
* `2++`: the $2^{++}$ glueball, including contributions from the $E^{++}, $T_2^{++}$, or both
* `torelon`: the torelon
* `g5`: the connected $\gamma_5$ state, the $2^{+}$ scalar baryon
* `gk`: the disconnected $\gamma_k$ state (containing only connected contributions),
  the $0^-$ vector meson
* `g5gk`: the connected $\gamma_5\gamma_k$ state, the $2^-$ vector baryon
* `mpcac`: the PCAC mass
* `spin12`: the $\breve{g}$ spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ state,

`observable` is one of

* `mass`: the state mass
* `decayconst` the state decay constant

and `statistic` is one of

* `value`: the central value of the observable
* `uncertainty`: the statistical uncertainty of the observable.

Columns not following this rule have the form
`{observable}_{statistic}`,
where `observable` is one of

* `Q0`:
  The mean topological charge
* `Q_tau_exp`:
  The exponential autocorrelation time of the topological charge,
* `Q_width`:
  The width of the topological charge distribution,
  measured by a fit
* `avr_plaquette`:
  The mean plaquette
* `chi_top`:
  The topological susceptibility
* `fitted_Q0`:
  The centre of the topological charge distribution,
  measured by a fit
* `gamma_aic`:
  The anomalous dimension obtained via a fit of the mode number
* `s8t0{operator}_{threshold}`, `w0{operator}_{threshold}`:
  The gradient flow scales $\sqrt{8t_0}$ and $w_0$,
  where
  * `operator` is either `p` (plaquette) or `c` (symmetric clover)
  * `threshold` is the value of $t^2 E$ to be reached at $w_0^2 = t =t_0$
    (`0.2` in this work)
* `string_tension`:
  The string tension $\sigma$

and `statistic` is one of

* `value`: the central value of the observable
* `uncertainty`: the statistical uncertainty of the observable.
* `syst_uncertainty`: the systematic uncertainty of the observable
  (only listed in the case of `gamma_aic`)

#### `gammastar_results.csv`

This file contains data computed from multiple ensembles,
specifically results for the mass anomalous dimension,
obtained via finite-size hyperscaling (FSHS) fits of the spectrum at specific $\beta$ values,
and continuum limit extrapolations of
the data obtained from the AIC method for specific ensembles.

Columns are

* `group_family`: The group family (`SUN` for this work)
* `group_rank`: The rank of the group (`2` for this work)
* `representation`: The representation (`ADJ` for this work)
* `Nf`: The number of dynamical flavours (`1` or `2` for this work)
* `beta`: The inverse coupling `beta`; for continuum limit extrapolations, this is `inf`
* `gamma_value`: The value obtained for the mass anomalous dimension
* `gamma_uncertainty`: The statistical uncertainty in the mass anomalous dimension
* `chisquare`: For continuum extrapolations,
  the chi-square on the fit.
  (This statistic is not given by the FSHS procedure.)
* `method`: For continuum extrapolations,
  the extrapolation form used.
  One of:
  * `WZero`:
    Extrapolating as a function of $w_0$ at finite fermion mass,
    as in Fig. 15 of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]
  * `BetaLinearExponent`:
    Extrapolating as a function of $\beta$,
    as in Fig. 16 and Eq. (33) of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]
  * `W0Chiral`:
    Extrapolating using a chiral limit value of $w_0$,
    as in Fig. 18 and Eq. (35) of [arXiv:2408.00171][paper]

### `package.h5`

The raw data have also been packaged with minimal processing into HDF5 format
to make it more convenient to use without writing a parser.
This file supersedes the version included in [the previous data release][previous-dr].
Not all data included in the raw files are included,
but all data used in generating the results in [arXiv:2103.10485][paper] are.

At the top level, data for each ensemble are presented as
groups labeled by the ensemble label
(DB1M1 &endash; DB4M11).
Each group has as attributes the quantities
`group_family`, `group_rank`, `representation`, `Nf`, `beta`, `m`, `L`, `T`,
`cfg_count`, `first_cfg`, and `last_cfg`,
as described above,
and contains some subset of the following:

* `average_plaquette`: a dataset containing the average plaquette
* `gradient_flow`: a group containing the following datasets:
  * `trajectories`: the trajectories on which the following results are measured
  * `flow_time`: the flow times at which the following results are measured
  * `E_density_plaquette`, `E_density_clover`:
    the density `E` measured using the plaquette and symmetric clover operator respectively;
    dimension (number of configurations, number of flow times)
  * `topological_charge`: the topological charge of the configuration;
    dimension (number of configurations, number of flow times)
* `polyakov loops`: a group containing the following datasets:
  * `trajectories`: the trajectories on which the following results are measured
  * `directional_plaquettes`:
    the average plaquette in each of the six orientations;
    dimension (6, number of configurations),
    where the 6 orientations are (0, 1), (0, 2), (0, 3), (1, 2), (1, 3), (2, 3)
  * `loops`:
    the average Polyakov line in each of the four directions;
    dimensions are (4, number of configurations)
* `correlators_hirep`:
  Mesonic correlation functions as measured by the [HiRep][hirep] code;
  a group containing:
  * A group for each value of the valence mass considered
    (each corresponds to the dynamical mass in this work),
    containing:
  * A group for each channel considered
     (labeled as described in the raw data section above),
     containing the datasets:
    * `config_indices`:
      Configuration indices of the configurations on which this channel was measured
      (in principle 1...number of configurations)
    * `correlators`:
      The raw mesonic correlator of each configuration in this channel;
      dimension (number of configurations, number of lattice sites in the time direction)
* `gluonic_correlation_matrices`,
  a group containing the datasets
  * `bctn`
    * `bctn` contains the binned value of the action,
      and is a 2-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for the action computation
  * `cor_L` and `vac_L`
    * `cor_L` contains the binned, blocked correlation matrix
      of the L1 torelon operators,
      and is a 7-dimensional array of double-precision complex numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of momenta (7)
      * number of operators for `L` (1)
      * number of operators for `L` (1)
      * `NT / 2 + 1`
      * number of blocking levels
      * number of blocking levels
    * `vac_L` contains the binned, blocked vacuum expectation value
      of the L1 torelon operators,
      and is a 3-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for `L` (1)
      * number of blocking levels
  * `cor_L2` and `vac_L2`
    * `cor_L2` contains the binned, blocked
      correlation matrix of the L2 torelon operators,
      and is a 7-dimensional array of double-precision complex numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of momenta (7)
      * number of operators for `L2` (2)
      * number of operators for `L2` (2)
      * `NT / 2 + 1`
      * number of blocking levels
      * number of blocking levels
    * `vac_L2` contains the binned, blocked
      vacuum expectation value of the L2 torelon operators,
      is a 3-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for `L2` (2)
      * number of blocking levels
  * `cor_0R`, `vac_0`, `cor_ER`, and `cor_TR`
    * `cor_0R` contains the real part of the binned, blocked
      correlation matrix of the 0ᐩᐩ operators,
      and is a 6-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for `0` (2)
      * number of operators for `0` (2)
      * `NT / 2 + 1`
      * number of blocking levels
      * number of blocking levels
    * `vac_0` contains the binned, blocked vacuum expectation value of the 0ᐩᐩ operators, and is a 3-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers, with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for `0` (2)
      * number of blocking levels
    * `cor_ER` contains the real part of the binned, blocked
      correlation matrix of the Eᐩᐩ operators,
      and is a 6-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for `E` (6)
      * number of operators for `E` (6)
      * `NT / 2 + 1`
      * number of blocking levels
      * number of blocking levels
    * `cor_TR` contains the real part of the binned, blocked
      correlation matrix of the Tᐩᐩ operators,
      and is a 6-dimensional array of double-precision real numbers,
      with dimensions
      * number of bins
      * number of operators for `T` (3)
      * number of operators for `T` (3)
      * `NT / 2 + 1`
      * number of blocking levels
      * number of blocking levels
  Individual datasets are annotated with
  attributs describing how many elements are expected in each dimension.
  Depending on the code used,
  some datasets may be missing.
* `modenumber`, a group containing the following datasets:
  * `trajectories`: the trajectories on which the mode number was measured.
    This is absent for data measured using the FlexLatSim code.
  * `upper_bounds`: the upper bound `Omega` up to which the mode number was integrated
  * `modenumbers`:
    the mode number for each trajectory and for each upper bound;
    dimensions (number of `Omega`s, number of trajectories)
* `correlators_spin12`:
  correlation functions measured FlexLatSim,
  containing:
  * `trajectories`: indices of the trajectories considered
  * `polyakov_line`, `polyakov_lineX`, `polyakov_lineY`, `polyakov_lineZ`:
    datasets containing
    the Polyakov line for each configuration
    in the T, X, Y, and Z direction respectively
  * `spacelike_plaquette`, `timelike_plaquette`, `complete_plaquette`:
    datasets containing
    the average plaquette
    with spatial, temporal, and any orientation respectively for each configuration
  * `gluinoglue`:
    a group containing the spin-1/2 correlation functions, containing:
    * Datasets labeled by channel identifiers:
      `WICorr1tr1`, `WICorr1tr4`, `WICorr2tr1`, `WICorr2tr4`, `WICorr3Tr1`, `WICorr3tr4`,
      `GGCorrTr1`, `GGCorrTr4`;
      dimensions (number of configurations, number of lattice sites in the time direction)
    * `metadata`,
      a group containing configuration-specific information in datasets
      of dimension (number of configurations):
      * `total_inviter`:
        the number of inversion iterations in calculating the correlator
      * `source_t`:
        the timeslice on which the source was placed
      * `leveli`, `levelj`
  * `Meson_corr`: a group containing mesonic correlation functions:
    * Datasets labeled by channel identifiers:
      `dsapcorr`, `vector`, `pvector`, `V0P`, `AP`, `V0V0`, `AV0`, `pscalar`,
      `scalar`, `AA`;
      dimensions (number of configurations, number of lattice sites in the time direction)
    * `metadata`,
      a group containing configuration-specific information in datasets
      of dimension (number of configurations):
      * `source_x`, `source_y`, `source_z`, `source_t`: the position of the source
      * `itpropagator`: the number of inversion iterations in calculating the propagator
      * `JN1`, `JN2`

[grid]: https://github.com/paboyle/Grid
[hirep]: https://github.com/claudiopica/HiRep
[paper]: https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00171
[previous-dr]: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5139618
